<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->

<p align="center">

  <h1 align="center">SplaTAM-Anything: Splat and track with any sparse depth map</h1>


<br>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details open="open" style='padding: 10px; border-radius:5px 30px 30px 5px; border-style: solid; border-width: 1px;'>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#installation">Installation</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#usage">Usage</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#downloads">Downloads</a>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#citation">Citation</a>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>

## Installation

##### (Recommended)
SplaTAM has been tested on python 3.10, CUDA>=11.8. The simplest way to install all dependences is to use [anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) in the following steps: 

```bash
conda create -n splatam python=3.10
conda activate splatam
conda install -c "nvidia/label/cuda-11.8.0" cuda-toolkit
conda install pytorch==1.12.1 torchvision==0.13.1 torchaudio==0.12.1 cudatoolkit=11.7 -c pytorch -c conda-forge
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<!-- Alternatively, we also provide a conda environment.yml file :
```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate splatam
``` -->

## Usage

We will use the Replica dataset as an example to show how to prepare the dataset and use SplaTAM for sparse reconstruction. The following steps are similar for other datasets if you would like to test on. We ran our code on 2 Datasets - Replica and Scannetv1. Replica is an opensource dataset which can be downloaded by following the link in datasets section and for Scannet you would need to fill out a form to get the download link from the .

To run SplaTAM, please use the following command:

```bash
python scripts/splatam.py configs/iphone/splatam.py
```

To visualize the final interactive SplaTAM reconstruction, please use the following command:

```bash
python viz_scripts/final_recon.py configs/iphone/splatam.py
```

To visualize the SplaTAM reconstruction in an online fashion, please use the following command:

```bash
python viz_scripts/online_recon.py configs/iphone/splatam.py
```

To export the splats to a .ply file, please use the following command:

```bash
python scripts/export_ply.py configs/iphone/splatam.py
```

`PLY` format Splats can be visualized in viewers such as [SuperSplat](https://playcanvas.com/supersplat/editor) & [PolyCam](https://poly.cam/tools/gaussian-splatting).


## Downloads

DATAROOT is `./data` by default. Please change the `input_folder` path in the scene-specific config files if datasets are stored somewhere else on your machine.

### Replica

Download the data as below, and the data is saved into the `./data/Replica` folder. Note that the Replica data is generated by the authors of iMAP (but hosted by the authors of NICE-SLAM). Please cite iMAP if you use the data.

```bash
bash bash_scripts/download_replica.sh
```

### ScanNet

Please follow the data downloading procedure on the [ScanNet](http://www.scan-net.org/) website, and extract color/depth frames from the `.sens` file using this [code](https://github.com/ScanNet/ScanNet/blob/master/SensReader/python/reader.py).

<details>
  <summary>[Directory structure of ScanNet (click to expand)]</summary>

```
  DATAROOT
  └── scannet
        └── scene0000_00
            └── frames
                ├── color
                │   ├── 0.jpg
                │   ├── 1.jpg
                │   ├── ...
                │   └── ...
                ├── depth
                │   ├── 0.png
                │   ├── 1.png
                │   ├── ...
                │   └── ...
                ├── intrinsic
                └── pose
                    ├── 0.txt
                    ├── 1.txt
                    ├── ...
                    └── ...
```
</details>


We use the following sequences: 
```
scene0000_00
scene0059_00
scene0106_00
scene0181_00
scene0207_00
```

# Data sampling and conversion

For Imitating sparse data from the Lidar sensors, first install the model file for Depth Anything from below. Keep the model file in the main directory, Keep in mind the default data folder is data/..... for Replica and Scannet. the conversion code read from there but you can also provide a argument for input path to do the same thing. After Creating the converted files Run the next script to replace the data from the ground truth to the converted depth maps. The original depth values are stored in the folder "original values". After the files have been replaced you can proceed to run the splatam as before. You can also run the normal splatam without anything by just running it normally without data modifications. 

```bash
python scripts/splatam.py configs/replica/splatam.py
```

For running SplaTAM, The original oauthors recommend running on weights and biases but it's okay to run offline for convinience. But if you still want to run on wandb and log all your parameter, you can set the `wandb` flag to True in the configs file. Also make sure to specify the path `wandb_folder`. 

### Replica

To run SplaTAM on the `room0` scene, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/splatam.py configs/replica/splatam.py
```

To run SplaTAM-S on the `room0` scene, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/splatam.py configs/replica/splatam_s.py
```

For other scenes, please modify the `configs/replica/splatam.py` file or use `configs/replica/replica.bash`.



For other scenes, please modify the `configs/tum/splatam.py` file or use `configs/tum/tum.bash`.

### ScanNet

To run SplaTAM on the `scene0000_00` scene, run the following command:

```bash
python scripts/splatam.py configs/scannet/splatam.py
```

For other scenes, please modify the `configs/scannet/splatam.py` file or use `configs/scannet/scannet.bash`.


For other scenes, please modify the config files.

